Block to Block
==============

*A sliding block puzzle game*

[http://bburky.com/blocktoblock](http://bburky.com/blocktoblock)

Overview
--------

The game is similar to many sliding "ice puzzle" games but includes creative and unique differences.

The player reaches the goal by sliding blocks into other blocks. The player continues moving in a direction, and cannot change directions, until they hit another block. A further challenge is that blocks are removed upon hitting them, preventing the player from backtracking through the puzzles.

A unique twist is that two blocks are controlled by the player, not one. This allows the player to reach otherwise unreachable locations by colliding the blocks.

By removing blocks as the player progresses and using two player-controlled blocks, Block to Block presents a unique interpretation of a classic puzzle game.

HTML5
-----

The entire game was implemented using the HTML5 canvas and JavaScript. No game engine was used, with the exception of a small sound library.

The implementation of the game required learning and using cutting edge browser features including the canvas element for graphics rendering, native fullscreen support and native sound support.

Furthermore, implementing the game within the restrictions of browsers' limited feature support was a significant challenge. The game is compatible with and fully playable in Chrome, Safari, Firefox and Internet Explorer. However, some features are impossible to implement in all browsers such as fullscreen in Safari and Internet Explorer.

Design
------

The design of the game is simple yet colorful. Animations in the game are simple animated image sprites. A motion blur effect is used to animate player movement.

The level design includes a background image including instructions and arrows to direct the player through the level. The arrows and other background elements are hand drawn, creating a creative but simple style.